So I prefer to explicitly
state return types.
And I'm going to show you why, it has
to do with where problems are surfaced.
Do you want those problems to be
surfaced at the place where you declare
the function?
Or do you want them to be surfaced
where you use the function?
So my preference is this, and
we can see that once we define a return
type we get an additional benefit there.
And that is, every code path that
goes through the implementation of
this function must live up to
what you state will happen.
Meaning, even if you had like six or seven
different branches that happened based on
different conditions, lots of complicated
logic for adding two numbers together.
Every one of those has to return a number
or throw but you can't return null and
one of those cases, this will give
you guarantees that everything is
handled down every path that
that could possibly be taken.
I want this error here,
surfaced at the function declaration.
Not at where I'm using it, so I'm gonna
pop up in the TypeScript playground and
we can look at the alternative here.
So I can add 3 and 4 here,
let's get rid of this.
Yeah, this is a great example.
So what's happening here is add,
it has a return type void,
meaning it doesn't return and
rather than talk about void now,
let's return null, right?
Add returns null, so
right now let's say I use add a bunch
of different places in my program.
They're all gonna light up, and the errors
happening at the point of invocation.
If I state my intentions up
front with a return type that's
explicit, Now, all of my usage is fine,
because I mean, it's not gonna run
the way I would want it to run.
But it returns a number that's what
I've stated, should happen, will happen.
And now this is one thing that I need
to fix, so it just reduces the noise.
You're not seeing like 15 different things
light up, you're seeing 1 thing light up,
and it's taking you to the location
of where you need to make a fix.
This is better, in my opinion,
that's why I like explicit return types.
Let's you state your intentions upfront,
make sure you follow through with them.
And it surfaces problems where
you need to fix the problems.
>> Mike, this seems,
kinda like local preventative medicine,
almost like when you were,
that last thing you did, I'm sorry.
When you are declaring,
I guess what the output type should be?
>> Yep.
>> So that you don't leave
locally in your code and
you can detect the error
before it happens, I suppose,
just trying to, in simple terms for me,
>> Sure,
let me tell you the way
I think about this.
So test driven development isn't for
everybody, but
I like type driven development, meaning,
sometimes I will state
what I'm trying to do and
put the usage of the function I
have not implemented yet in place.
And I can define what I think
I need in terms of inputs and
outputs, and
then I can implement it later.
So I like to use this as a tool and
frequently I'll end up doing this.
Write the code that I want to be able to
run and then fill in all of my functions.
Now, you talk about this as
local preventative medicine.
I think about this as local boundaries,
where instead of validating that
your whole program works by
running an extensive test suite
that tests everything all together.
You can on a per function basis,
ensure that within this function,
I am returning the right thing,
I am accepting the right thing, and
then you can move on to another function.
Now, TypeScript is not a replacement for
tests, it's not a replacement for
unit tests.
But this does give you the ability
to shift between micro and macro.
Is this function doing the right thing,
is it returning the right thing?
Do I have the right guarantees around
it and then shift out, and let's test
the whole program, and let's make sure
that things work the way they should.
And I say TypeScript is
not a replacement for
tests because all it does is checks types,
right?
It doesn't actually ensure that a and
b actually gets summed up together.
So if you were writing tests that
specifically validated only the type
information, yes, you can eliminate those.
But, I think it's kind of
a dangerous statement to say,
You no longer have to
write a lot of unit tests.
TypeScript has nothing to do with
behavior that's still left to JavaScript.
So, hopefully we're writing those
kinds of unit tests to begin with,
don't stop writing this.